<!--#include virtual="/include/vars.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#set var="menu" value="download" -->
<!--#set var="title" value="Download" -->
<!--#set var="color" value="green" -->
<!--#set var="tagline" value="false" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/header_html.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/header_primary.inc.xhtml" -->
			<div id="summary">
				<div id="download">
<!--#set var="version" value="old" -->
<!--#include virtual="/download/versions.inc.xhtml" -->
					<h3>XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Windows:</h3>
					<p>The Windows version of XCSoar can be used preflight planning, postflight replay or just to get to know the application before using it in the air.</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/PC/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Windows</a></li>
					</ul>
					<h3>XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Windows Mobile:</h3>
					<p>The Windows Mobile version should be used on all PDAs and PNAs. Depending on what operating system your PDA runs you need to choose between Pocket PC 2000, Windows Mobile 2003 and Windows Mobile 5. PNA owners should usually choose the Windows Mobile 5 version.</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/WM5X/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Windows Mobile 5 (XScale CPU)</a></li>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/WM5/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Windows Mobile 5 (older CPU)</a></li>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/PPC2003/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Windows Mobile 2003</a></li>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/PPC2000/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Pocket PC 2000</a></li>
					</ul>
					<h3>XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Android:</h3>
					<p>The Android version of XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> runs on all phones and tablets with Android 1.6 or newer.</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/ANDROID/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Android</a></li>
					</ul>
					<h3>XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Linux:</h3>
					<p>The Linux version of XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> is not yet entirely finished!</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/LINUX/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Linux</a></li>
					</ul>
					<h3>XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Altair:</h3>
					<p>We are working on XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> for the Altair platform. This version however is experimental and currently not endorsed by the manufacturer.</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/releases/<!--#echo var="old_version"-->/ALTAIR/">XCSoar <!--#echo var="old_version"--> on Altair</a></li>
					</ul>
				</div>
			</div> <!-- /summary -->
<!--#include virtual="/download/sidebar.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/footer_primary.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/header_secondary.inc.xhtml" -->
      <div id="details">
        <h2>Files</h2>
        <h3>These files can be used with XCSoar</h3>
        <ul class="files">
          <li>Map File<br/><span class="detail">A map file (.xcm) is a file, that can contain terrain, topology, waypoint and airspace files itself. These files can be created with our new <a href="http://mapgen.xcsoar.org">Map Generator</a>.</span></li>
          <li>Airspace File<br/><span class="detail">An airspace file (.txt) is a file, that contains special use airspace information and coordinates in the OpenAir file format.</span></li>
          <li>Waypoint File<br/><span class="detail">A waypoint file (.xcw / .dat) is a file, that contains waypoints, airports and outlanding fields in the WinPilot/Cambridge waypoint format.<br/><i>(Support for SeeYou and Zander files is included in v6.1)</i></span></li>
          <li>Airfields File<br/><span class="detail">An airfields file (.txt) is a file, that contains detailed information about the loaded waypoints, that is available on a seperate page of the Waypoint Details dialog.</span></li>
        </ul>
      </div> <!-- /details -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/footer_secondary.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/footer_html.inc.xhtml" -->
