---
layout: post
color: blue
title: XCSoar 6.2_alpha1 released!
author: Max Kellermann
---
Hi,

this is a preview for those who are curious what we've been doing
behind the scenes.  This is the first public pre-release of the
upcoming XCSoar version 6.2.

My favorite new feature is the ability to download validated IGC files
from external loggers (IMI ERIXX, CAI302 and LX/Colibri so far).  I
can finally dispose my old hx4700 now, which was only used to extract
IGC files from my CAI302 with Cambridge's Windows CE utility.  Hooray
for my liberating my Ventus from the evil Windows CE!

A lot of time has been spent on the map renderer.  You won't notice
much of that, except for increased battery life.

And again, memory usage was optimised, which should help PPC2002
users.  Those of you who run PPC2000: most PPC2000 can be upgraded to
PPC2002.  We had many debugging sessions, only to find that PPC2000
was buggy, and it wasn't our fault.

There are other new features written by other people, but we havn't
written the change log yet.  The Android IOIO driver isn't finished
yet, but will be included before the final release 6.2.

One last word of warning before you download this release: it's an
alpha version.  It is untested and probably unstable.  Test it, report
bugs, but don't complain this time - if you want reliable software,
use the latest release from the 6.1 branch.  You can have both
installed at the same time.

Change log:

 <{{ site.download_server_url }}/6.2_alpha1/NEWS.txt>

Download:

 [http://www.xcsoar.org/download/latest.html](/download/latest.html)  
 <{{ site.download_server_url }}/6.2_alpha1/>  
 <https://market.android.com/details?id=org.xcsoar.testing>

The next maintenance release will be 6.1.4, to be released on demand.
The next major release will be 6.2, going beta soon.


