---
layout: post
color: blue
title: XCSoar 6.4_alpha2 released!
author: Turbo
---
Dear Sir or Madam,

we hereby present you: XCSoar 6.4... well... actually just the second alpha
version, sorry! ;)

We have however added a few small new features that you can test now. Several
people have been complaining that a simple "GoTo" takes too many clicks since
the "Map Items" list was introduced. We have added a __"GoTo" button__ directly
in this list dialog now and hope that this will simplify things for you.

We have also improved the __LX V7/Nano__ support again. This release of XCSoar
will be able to work with the upcoming firmware update (2.01) for the LX V7,
which makes it much easier to detect and configure the device that is providing
the V7 with GPS information (e.g. the LX Nano).

We had slightly changed the __audio vario__ sound parameters for the last
release and some pilots had mixed feelings about that. This new version will let
you configure them yourself through the usual configuration dialog.

There is one important change now for all users that have gotten used to the
__final glide infobox mode__: We have made this mode optional and the default is
now to disable it. That means that if you want a special set of infoboxes for
the final glide you will have to activate that option explicitly after
installing this release!

Aside from these new things a few bugs have been fixed. There was for example a
problem in the first alpha version with __waypoint files__ that included umlauts
and other special characters. This should be fixed now!

Change log:

 <{{ site.download_server_url }}/6.4_alpha2/NEWS.txt>

Download:

 [http://www.xcsoar.org/download/latest.html](/download/latest.html)  
 <{{ site.download_server_url }}/6.4_alpha2/>  
 <https://market.android.com/details?id=org.xcsoar.testing>

The next maintenance release will be 6.3.9, to be released on demand.
The next major release will be 6.4, going beta soon.


