<!--#set var="menu" value="download" -->
<!--#set var="title" value="Download" -->
<!--#set var="color" value="green" -->
<!--#set var="tagline" value="false" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/header_html.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/header_primary.inc.xhtml" -->
			<div id="summary">
				<div id="download">
<!--#set var="version" value="stable" -->
<!--#include virtual="/download/versions.inc.xhtml" -->
					<h3>XCSoar 6.0 on Windows:</h3>
					<p>The Windows version of XCSoar can be used to get to know the application or to replay flights with our IGC replay feature.</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/nightly/stable/PC/">XCSoar 6.0 on Windows (stable)</a></li>
					</ul>
					<h3>XCSoar 6.0 on Windows Mobile:</h3>
					<p>The Windows Mobile version should be used on all PDAs and PNAs. Depending on how old your PDA/PNA is and what operating system is used to run it you need to choose between Pocket PC 2000, Windows Mobile 2003 and Windows Mobile 5.</p>
					<ul>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/nightly/stable/WM5/">XCSoar 6.0 on Windows Mobile 5 (stable)</a></li>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/nightly/stable/PPC2003/">XCSoar 6.0 on Windows Mobile 2003 (stable)</a></li>
					<li><a href="http://max.kellermann.name/download/xcsoar/nightly/stable/PPC2000/">XCSoar 6.0 on Pocket PC 2000 (stable)</a></li>
					</ul>
					<h3>XCSoar 6.0 on Altair:</h3>
					<p>We are currently not working on XCSoar 6.0 for the Altair platform. If you would like to use XCSoar 6.0 on this platform please contact the <a href="http://www.triadis.ch/index.php?altair">manufacturer</a>.</p>
					<h3>XCSoar 6.0 on Unix:</h3>
					<p>The Unix version of XCSoar 6.0 is almost ready. We will release a first test version within the next weeks.</p>
					<h3>XCSoar 6.0 on Android:</h3>
					<p>We are working on porting XCSoar to the Android platform, but since such a port needs time, please be patient.</p>
				</div>
			</div> <!-- /summary -->
<!--#include virtual="/download/sidebar.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/footer_primary.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/header_secondary.inc.xhtml" -->
      <div id="details">
        <h2>Files</h2>
        <h3>These files can be used with XCSoar</h3>
        <ul class="files">
          <li>Map File<br/><span class="detail">A map file (.xcm) is a file, that can contain terrain, topology, waypoint and airspace files itself. These files can be created with our <a href="/download/terrain">Terrain Generator</a>.</span></li>
          <li>Airspace File<br/><span class="detail">An airspace file (.txt) is a file, that contains special use airspace information and coordinates in the OpenAir file format.</span></li>
          <li>Waypoint File<br/><span class="detail">A waypoint file (.xcw / .dat) is a file, that contains waypoints, airports and outlanding fields in the WinPilot/Cambridge waypoint format.<br/><i>(Support for SeeYou and Zander files is included in v6.0)</i></span></li>
          <li>Airfields File<br/><span class="detail">An airfields file (.txt) is a file, that contains detailed information about the loaded waypoints, that is available on a seperate page of the Waypoint Details dialog.</span></li>
          <li>Terrain File<br/><span class="detail">A terrain file (.dat) is a file, that contains all the height information for the chosen area.<br/><i>(Outdated! Please use map files instead)</i></span></li>
          <li>Topology Files<br/><span class="detail">Topology files are files, that contain names and coordinates of cities, roads, railroads, rivers and lakes.<br/><i>(Outdated! Please use map files instead)</i></span></li>
          <li class="no-bullet"><a href="/trac/wiki/Filetypes">more details...</a></li>
        </ul>
      </div> <!-- /details -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/footer_secondary.inc.xhtml" -->
<!--#include virtual="/include/footer_html.inc.xhtml" -->
